# Claim
# Article Reference
Everett, J., 2020. Facts about Climate Change Science and Ocean Acidification, truth from consensus and climate change skeptics. [Informative] Climate Change Facts. Available at: <http://www.climatechangefacts.info/#OceanAcidification> [Accessed 24 Oct. 2021].

  Scientific claims made upon heavily debated topics can prove harmful to society. One of the best examples of this is the views of climate change skeptics and deniers. Usually, these people’s beliefs are rooted in opinions rather than facts and have conflicting biases that impact the accuracy and reliability of the data. This is exactly the case for a claim being made by climatechangefacts.info stating that ocean acidification will actually benefit marine life rather than harm it (Everett, 2020). Statements like these are of the utmost importance because they are counterintuitive to common scientific beliefs and backed up with outdated or misinterpreted science which makes them susceptible to the general public.
	Firstly, the author makes many assumptions and logical fallacies in his testimony undermining his credibility and the logical validity of his arguments. For example, he typically uses what is called a slippery slope, instead of saying ocean acidification he says ocean acidity demonstrating that it is not a process but a state of being made seems less concerning.  He makes hasty generalizations like stating that “observational data in studies show no harm” and that “There is also nothing conclusive in the recent research to indicate any reason for concern”. These generalizations are wrong to make because they ignore any contrary data and make it seem like there is no alternative argument. When in fact meta-analysis on the topic suggests that “near-future ocean acidification can/will have a dramatic negative impact on some marine species with likely consequences at the ecosystem level” (Dupont et al., 2010). Lastly, he uses post hoc ergo propter-hoc by stating that since high-CO2 was present in the past and marine animals still lived so now the results would be the same. He doesn’t consider the change in environmental variables which may alter the outcome of the comparison being drawn. 
	The author also misrepresents scientific studies reduces the academic accuracy of his claims. He claims that algae that go through calcification do much better in higher CO2 environments by citing Iglesias-Rodriguez et al., 2008. The study actually showed that high-CO2 conditions actually halt the growth rates. This is because algae act as carbon sinks for the ocean so they consume carbon from photosynthesis. So, therefore, enhancing calcification would end up halting growth and reduce the ocean’s ability to act as a carbon sink (Iglesias-Rodriguez et al., 2008). This evidence refutes the first and third claims in his article. He also states in his conclusion that crustaceans respond favorably to higher CO2 levels so therefore other animals must too. However, this is not stated in the article he cites. In fact, the opposite is stated as the article suggests greater variability in responses of species and specifically that algae and other species respond negatively to CO2 increases (Ries, Cohen, and McCorkle, 2009). This undermines the final claim he makes that there is no biological disruption in the ecosystem. Even if his overall arguments were plausible they relate to specific species interactions and do not look at the ecosystem as a whole. His opinions are based on inferences and do not hold when the fact is provided.
	The scientific claims made by John Everett in this article undermine his credibility as a marine biologist with the IPCC and are not plausible. As they are rooted in misinterpreted facts and logical fallacies they are particularly harmful to those skeptical and unknowing of modern science. It is important we understand where we obtain our scientific knowledge from particularly making sure we are acknowledging and understanding all the intricacies of the topic. Only in this way will change be made.
  
# References
Dupont, S., Dorey, N. and Thorndyke, M., 2010. What meta-analysis can tell us about the vulnerability of marine biodiversity to ocean acidification? Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science, 89(2), pp.182–185. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecss.2010.06.013.
Iglesias-Rodriguez, M.D., Halloran, P.R., Rickaby, R.E.M., Hall, I.R., Colmenero-Hidalgo, E., Gittins, J.R., Green, D.R.H., Tyrrell, T., Gibbs, S.J., von Dassow, P., Rehm, E., Armbrust, E.V. and Boessenkool, K.P., 2008. Phytoplankton calcification in a high-CO2 world. Science (New York, N.Y.), 320(5874), pp.336–340. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1154122.
Ries, J.B., Cohen, A.L. and McCorkle, D.C., 2009. Marine calcifiers exhibit mixed responses to CO2-induced ocean acidification. Geology, 37(12), pp.1131–1134. https://doi.org/10.1130/G30210A.1.
